# Top-of-Atmosphere (TOA) Reflectance 

The Landsat sensor is in orbit approximately 700 kilometers above Earth. The ratio of upward (reflected from the target at Earth's surface) radiance measured by the sensor to downward radiance from the sun is a unitless ratio called [reflectance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reflectance). (In fact it's more complicated than that because radiance is a directional quantity, but this definition captures the basic idea). Because this ratio is computed using whatever radiance the sensor measures (which may contain all sorts of atmospheric effects), it's called *at-sensor* or *top-of-atmosphere* (TOA) reflectance. In this exercise, you will load TOA reflectance data and examine spectra at representative locations.

To get TOA data for landsat, a transformation of digital numbers is performed as described in [Chander et al. (2009)](http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0034425709000169). This transformation is automatically done by Earth Engine. Search for 'landsat 8 toa' and import the 'USGS Landsat 8 Collection 1 Tier 1 TOA Reflectance' ImageCollection. Name the import 'toa'. This collection stores TOA images which can be filtered as in exercise 1, substituting 'toa' for 'landsat' as the collection variable. A shortcut is to find the image ID from the printout of image (defined in exercise 1), then copy this ID directly into the Image constructor, appending _TOA to the collection name (the difference is shown in bold):

```javascript
 var toaImage = ee.Image('LANDSAT/LC08/C01/T1_TOA/LC08_044034_20141012');  
```


1. Since reflectance is a unitless ratio in [0, 1], change the visualization parameters to correctly display the TOA data:

```javascript
Map.addLayer(toaImage, {bands: ['B4', 'B3', 'B2'], min: 0, max: 0.3},  'toa');  
```


1. Using the **Inspector**, click several locations on the map and examine the resultant spectra. It should be apparent, especially if you chart the spectra, that the scale of pixel values in different bands is drastically different. Specifically, bands 10-11 are not in [0, 1]. 

2. The reason is that these are thermal bands, and are converted to brightness temperature, in [Kelvin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kelvin), as part of the TOA conversion. Very little radiance is reflected in this wavelength range; most is emitted from the Earth's surface. That emitted radiance can be used to estimate [brightness temperature](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brightness_temperature), using the inverted [Planck equation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Planck's_law). 

3. Examine the temperature of various locations. Now add this command to the TOA image before adding it to the map to get only bands 1-9: 

   ```javascript
   .select('B([0-9])'. 
   ```

   

4. To make plots of reflectance, select the reflective bands from the TOA image and use the Earth Engine [charting API](https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/charts). To see a customized chart of reflectance at a point in Golden Gate Park, use:

```javascript
//  Hardcode a point in Golden Gate Park.   
var ggPark = ee.Geometry.Point([-122.4860, 37.7692]);      
// Define reflective  bands as bands B1-B7. See the docs for slice().   
var reflectiveBands = bands.slice(0, 7);      
// See  http://landsat.usgs.gov/band_designations_landsat_satellites.php   
var wavelengths = [0.44, 0.48, 0.56, 0.65, 0.86, 1.61, 2.2];      
// Select only the  reflectance bands of interest.   
var reflectanceImage =  toaImage.select(reflectiveBands);      
// Define an object of  customization parameters for the chart.   
var options = {
  title: 'Landsat  8 TOA spectrum in Golden Gate Park',    
               hAxis: {title: 'Wavelength  (micrometers)'},
               vAxis: {title: 'Reflectance'},
               lineWidth: 1,
               pointSize: 4};      
// Make the chart, using  a 30 meter pixel.   
var chart = ui.Chart.image.regions(
  reflectanceImage, 
  ggPark, null, 30, null, wavelengths)
		.setOptions(options);      
// Display the chart.   
print(chart);  
```

There are several new methods in this code. The Point constructor takes a list of coordinates as input, as an alternative to a "hand-made" point from the geometry drawing tools that is imported to the script. The slice() method gets entries in a list based on starting and ending indices. Search the docs (on the **Docs** tab) for 'slice' to find other places this method can be used. Construction of the chart is handled by an object of customization parameters ([learn more about customizing charts](https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/charts_image_histogram)) passed to [Chart.image.regions()](https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/charts_image_regions).