# Surface Reflectance 

The ratio of upward radiance *at the Earth's surface* to downward radiance *at the Earth's surface* is called surface reflectance. Unlike TOA reflectance, in which those radiances are at the sensor, the radiances at the Earth's surface have been affected by the atmosphere. The radiance incident on the target is affected by its downward path through the atmosphere. The radiance reflected by the target is affected by its upward path through the atmosphere to the sensor. Unravelling those effects is called atmospheric correction ("compensation" is probably a more accurate term) and is beyond our scope. However, helpful scientists at the USGS have already performed this correction for us. 

**To explore Landsat surface reflectance data, search 'Landsat 8 surface reflectance' and import the 'USGS Landsat 8 Surface Reflectance Tier 1'** **ImageCollection****. 

Name the import `sr`. 

Filter to the same date, location and cloudiness as with the raw and TOA collections and get the first image.

**When you add this to the map, you will need to scale the imagery or change the visualization parameters. Why? Read the dataset description to find out. What is the scale factor for bands 1-9?**

### Synthesis

1.  In your code, set the value of a variable called azimuth to the solar azimuth of the image from 1d. Do     not hardcode the number. Use get(). Print the result.

2. Add a layer to the map in which the image from 1d is displayed with band 7 set to red, band 5 set to green and band 3 set to blue. Name the layer falsecolor.

3. What is the brightness temperature of the golden gate park point? Make a variable in your code called temperature and set it to the band 10 brightness temperature. Hint:

```javascript
var  temperature = toaImage.reduceRegion(
  { <YOUR SOLUTION HERE>   })
		.get(  <YOUR SOLUTION  HERE>);  
```

Use [this guide](https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/reducers_reduce_region) for help.

4. What is the surface reflectance (in [0,1], meaning you will need to apply the scale factor) in band 5 (NIR) at the golden gate park point? Make a variable in your code called reflectance that stores this value. 