# Non-Linear Filtering

The previous convolution examples can all be implemented as linear combinations of pixel values in a neighborhood (gradient needs a couple extra steps, but nevermind that). Non-linear functions applied to a neighborhood are also useful. Implement these functions in Earth Engine with the [reduceNeighborhood()](https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/guides/reducers_reduce_neighborhood) method on images. 

## Median

A median filter can be useful for denoising images. Specifically, suppose that random pixels in your image are saturated by anomalously high or low values that result from some noise process. Filtering the image with a mean filter (as in section 3.a.i) would result in pixel values getting polluted by noisy data. To avoid that, smooth the image with a median filter (reusing the 5x5 uniform kernel from above)

```javascript
var median = image.reduceNeighborhood({
 reducer: ee.Reducer.median(), 
 kernel: uniformKernel
});
Map.addLayer(median, {min: 0, max: 255}, 'Median');
```

## Mode

 For categorical maps, methods such as median and mean make little sense for aggregating nominal data. In these cases, use neighborhood mode to get the most frequently occurring value.


For demonstration purposes, make a categorical map by thresholding the NIR band. Two classes, with labels 1 and 0 are the result

```javascript
// Create and display a simple two-class image.
var veg = image.select('N').gt(200);
// Display the two-class (binary) result.
var binaryVis = {min: 0, max: 1, palette: ['black', 'green']};
Map.addLayer(veg, binaryVis, 'veg');
```


Compute the mode in each 5x5 neighborhood

```javascript
// Compute the mode in each 5x5 neighborhood and display the result.
var mode = veg.reduceNeighborhood({
 reducer: ee.Reducer.mode(), 
 kernel: uniformKernel
});
Map.addLayer(mode, binaryVis, 'mode');
```


Compare the shape of patches in the mode image to the original veg image. Note the smoothing effect that the mode has on the shape of patches.



