# Morphological Processing

The idea of morphology is tied to the concept of objects in images. For example, suppose the patches of 1's in the veg image from the previous section represent patches of vegetation.

## Dilation (Max)

If the patches underestimate the actual distribution of vegetation, or contain "holes", a max filter can be applied to [dilate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dilation_(morphology)) the areas of vegetation

```javascript
// Dilate by taking the max in each 5x5 neighborhood.
var max = veg.reduceNeighborhood({
 reducer: ee.Reducer.max(), 
 kernel: uniformKernel
});
Map.addLayer(max, binaryVis, 'max');
```


Try increasing the amount of dilation by increasing the size of the kernel (i.e. increase the radius) or applying reduceNeighborhood() more than once.

## Erosion (Min)

The opposite of dilation is [erosion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erosion_(morphology)), for decreasing the size of the patches

```javascript
// Erode by taking the min in each 5x5 neighborhood.
var min = veg.reduceNeighborhood({
 reducer: ee.Reducer.min(), 
 kernel: uniformKernel
});
Map.addLayer(min, binaryVis, 'min');
```


Carefully inspect the result compared to the input. Note that the shape of the kernel affects the *shape* of the eroded patches (the same effect occurs in the dilationdialtion). Explore this effect by testing different shape kernels. As with the dilation, note that you can get more erosion by increasing the size of the kernel or applying the operation repetitively.

## Opening

To "open" possible "holes" in the patches, perform an erosion followed by a dilation. This process is called [opening](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Opening_(morphology)). Try that by performing a dilation of the eroded image:

```javascript
// Perform an opening by dilating the eroded image.
var opened = min.reduceNeighborhood({
 reducer: ee.Reducer.max(), 
 kernel: uniformKernel
});
Map.addLayer(opened, binaryVis, 'opened');
```

## Closing

The opposite of opening is [closing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Closing_(morphology)), or dilation followed by erosion. Use this to "close" possible "holes" in the input patches

```javascript
// Perform a closing by eroding the dilated image.
var closed = max.reduceNeighborhood({
 reducer: ee.Reducer.min(), 
 kernel: uniformKernel
});
Map.addLayer(closed, binaryVis, 'closed');
```


Closely examine the difference between each morphological operation and the veg input. Tune these morphological operators by adjusting the size and shape of the kernel (also called a [*structuring element*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Structuring_element) in this context, because of its effect on the shape of the result), or applying the operations repeatedly.

 