# Supervised Classification

[Classification in Earth Engine](https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/classification) has this workflow: build the training, train the classifier, classify an image.


We will begin by creating training data manually. Using the geometry tools and the Landsat composite as a background, digitize training polygons. We’ll need to do two things: identify where polygons occur on the ground, and label them with the proper class number.

1. Draw a polygon around a bare ground area, then [configure the import](https://developers.google.com/earth-engine/playground#geometry-tools). Import as FeatureCollection, then click **+ New property**. Name the new property 'class' and give it a value of 0. The dialog should show **class**: 0. Name the import 'bare'. 
2.  **+ new layer** > Draw a polygon around vegetation > import as FeatureCollection > add a property > name it 'class' and give it a value of 1. Name the import 'vegetation'. 
3.  **+ new layer** > Draw a polygon around water > import as FeatureCollection > add a property > name it 'class' and give it a value of 2. Name the import 'water'. 
4.  You should have three FeatureCollection imports named 'bare', 'vegetation' and 'water'. Merge them into one FeatureCollection:

```javascript
var trainingFeatures = bare.merge(vegetation).merge(water);
```

In the merged FeatureCollection, each Feature should have a property called 'class' where the classes are consecutive integers, one for each class, starting at 0. Verify that this is true. Create a training set **T** for the classifier by sampling the Landsat composite with the merged features:

```javascript
var classifierTraining = landsat.select(predictionBands)
  .sampleRegions({
   collection: trainingFeatures, 
   properties: ['class'], 
   scale: 30
  });
```

The choice of classifier is not always obvious, but a CART (a [decision tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decision_tree_learning) when running in classification mode) is not a crazy place to start. Instantiate a CART and train it:

```javascript
var classifier = ee.Classifier.smileCart().train({
 features: classifierTraining, 
 classProperty: 'class', 
 inputProperties: predictionBands
});
```

Classify the image

```javascript
var classified = landsat.select(predictionBands)
				.classify(classifier);
Map.addLayer(classified, 
             {min: 0, max: 2, 
              palette: ['red', 'green', 'blue']}, 
             'classified');
```

Inspect the result. Some things to test if the result is unsatisfactory: 

1. Other classifiers. 
   1. Try some of the other classifiers in Earth Engine to see if the result is better or different.
2. Different (more) training data. 
   1. Try adjusting the shape and/or size of your training polygons to have a more representative sample of your classes.
3. Add more predictors. 
   1. Try adding spectral indices to the input variables.

